All right guys in this video we're going to take a look at lists and tables.
So let's create a new file and we're going to call it 0 6 underscore lists underscore tables dot each
team out and add in our boilerplate here.
Close that up lists and tables.
OK so we have a couple of different types of lists.
So we have unordered lists
and unordered lists.
They're not numbered and basically they're they have bullet points which of course you can remove with
CSX.
You can you can have different types of bullet points.
But let's go out and create an unordered list.
So we want to put a U L tag and then each item in the list should be wrapped in a list item in ally
tag.
So let's go ahead and just say item 1 and what I'll do is I'll hold down shift in option or shift in
Ault and just hit the down arrow so that we can bring these down and let's change that to three and
four and we'll save this control less.
And then let's open this with live server and there we go so that's what it's going to give us.
I'm actually going to zoom in a little bit on the H terminal so you can see this better should probably
get a while ago and notice that the bullets are here.
And like I said these can be removed through CSX.
We can also have different types of bullets.
This isn't something that I would recommend but you can use a style tag to change the attributes and
there is something called a list style.
And we have circle square.
Let's see let's change it to a square and save.
Now you can see that each bullet is a square.
We have desk save that.
That's the default circle.
Save that.
So that's kind of an unfilled circle.
And then we also have actually I think that's it.
And then we have none.
All right.
And I add this is something that I would not recommend doing you want to.
You want to put all your styling in your CSF style sheet.
But I just wanted to give you an example of this.
So let's get rid of that.
So that's an unordered list.
At the same time we have ordered lists
and I'm going to give you another little Emmett trick here.
So first of all it's an O L tag and then we still use allies.
OK.
We still use list items whether it's ordered or unordered.
Now with Emmett let's say I want to have four list items I can actually do time so I can put an asterisk
for and hit tab and it'll actually give me four or list items.
Case a little tip there and we can fill these in.
Let's say item 1 item 2
item 4.
And we'll save that.
And now notice that instead of bullets we actually have numbers.
OK.
So it's a number list.
And then we can change the type as well.
So there's a type attribute.
So basically Type 1 is the default if I save that you'll see no change.
That's just numbers.
I am we can use type uppercase a if I save that it'll change it to uppercase letters.
If we use lowercase a is the type it'll be lowercase letters we can use uppercase I which will actually
do uppercase Roman numerals lowercase i will do lowercase Roman numerals.
So just to let you know that you can add the type attribute ordered list is something that I almost
never use unordered list is something you're going to use all the time because they're used for navigation
menus whether it's a horizontal navigate nav bar or if it's a side menu or anything like that.
So we can also have nested lists.
So let's actually copy this.
So I'm going to just control C copy this well here and control V will paste that in and let's say we
want to have a list within the list.
So inside this ally the second one let's get rid of that.
Actually we'll keep that but next to it I'm going to go on a new line and I'm going to put another well
inside here and let's put a ally and we'll say nested item one OK and then we'll do nested item two.
Let's save that.
And now you can see that these two items are nested in the act.
It automatically changes the the bullet point here to a circle.
Changes it from a disk to a circle.
So lists are pretty simple styling them as is a whole new level.
When you start to get into creating navigation bars and stuff like that but we'll get into that later
on when we start to deal with CSX.
All right.
So let's talk about tables OK.
So tables are used for tabular data.
Now back in the day back in you know eight nine ten years ago people would actually use tables to for
a Web site layout.
Before we had proper CSX before we had flex box in the grid system and and frameworks and stuff like
that people would actually would have like their sidebar and their main content area in their Web site
be a table which is absolutely horrible you never want to do anything like that.
You only want to use tables for tabular data.
If you have a you know list of users or whatever it may be just some kind of data.
So to create a table we want to put a table tag and in a table we have a head a body and we can also
have a footer If we want.
I don't usually use photos but for the head we're gonna say T had OK and we want a table row inside
the table row we want some columns but when it's with when it's a heading you want to use t h k for
table head and let's do first name and then we'll bring this down twice by holding control option or
control alt and hit the down arrow twice and we'll change this to let's say last name and let's do email.
OK.
Now if I save this you'll see that these are our headings.
OK so these are the headings and then we want the data underneath so the data is going to go in the
T body.
OK.
So we have our table our table head and then our table body which you also have table rows.
But instead of T.H. We want to use t d gave t h is only for the heading and then we'll say to John bring
down two more.
So DOE would be the last name and email
OK if I save that.
And there we go so we have first name we have one entry here or one row with it which is John Doe and
then his email.
So I'm gonna go ahead and copy this whole table row and let's do two more
I want to fix this up a little bit
and we'll go ahead and change up some of this data.
So say Kate Smith.
Kate you have
all right.
So we'll save that.
And now we have three rows in our table.
OK so pretty simple if we want to we could change the width.
Now I would suggest doing this stuff through CSX but just to show you we can we can use this style attribute
and we can say with I don't know six hundred pixels and now it's wider and it just it's more readable
like that.
But again I would suggest not using the style attribute that's not good practice but we haven't gotten
into CSX yet.
So in the next video we're going to take a look at forms and input fields.